Now we've looked at how to see
our data layer attributes and
properties,
and we've also hopefully changed
the names of our layers so
they're nice and clear what
they're representing. We're
going to take a look at the
symbology of our vector data
layers.
So we're going to turn off our
two raster layers because we
won't need them in this video
and just look at the three
vector data layers that we have
at the top. So, we've got the
biomonitoring points, the roads
and the polygon representing the
Ziama protected area and we're
going to be looking at the
symbology of this Ziama
protected area polygon in this
video. So at the moment we can
see that we've got a yellow
polygon to represent this, but
we're going to have a go at
changing this.
There's a couple ways to change
the symbology. For this method,
we're going to right click on
the layer and then choose
symbology and then this will
bring up the primary symbology
pane. So, within this pane we've
got an option here underneath
with the drop down box to choose
what we actually want to
represent the data layer. And so
at the moment we have a single
symbol and actually this is the
best thing for representing the
protected area. So we're going
to keep this how it is
and then to change what the
symbol looks like we can either
click on the box next to where
it says Symbol
and this will bring up the
Format Polygon symbol pane, or
we can also click on the symbol
within our contents pane
and that will bring up the same
pane.
And we're going to first of all
look at Gallery within this
format polygon pane
and within Gallery we have a lot
of pre-made symbols that we can
just click and choose. And so
we're going to choose the second
option here the black outline.
And if we click on this, we can
see that it changes the symbol
representing the protected area.
If we wanted to change this
further though, we could also go
into the properties next to
Gallery
and in this section we can
choose exactly how we want our
symbol to look. So for example,
we can change the colour of the
polygon,
we can change the outline
colour, and we can also change
the outline width, and we're
going to change this to 1
instead. And whenever you change
these, you need to remember to
click apply to actually apply
these changes.
And here we go. We can see that
the outline of our symbol is now
a thinner black line, and so
that's how to change the
symbology of our vector data
layers.